                         FOX AND THE GRAPES

   Once upon a time . . . in a wood there lived a very crafty quick-witted 
fox. The rabbits, rats, the birds and all the other creatures fled at the 
sight of him, for they all knew how cruel and famished he was. And since his 
prey kept fearfully out of sight, the fox had no choice but to haunt the 
neighbourhood buildings in the hope of finding something to eat. The first 
time, he was in luck. Near a lonely peasant's cottage, only a low fence stood 
between him and the hen run, and there he left death and destruction behind 
him.
   "What careless men, leaving such tender fat hens unguarded," he said to 
himself as he trotted away, still munching.
   A few days later, hungry once more, he decided to visit the same hen run 
again. He crept up to the fence. A thread of smoke curled from the cottage 
chimney, but all was quiet. With a great bound, he leapt into the hen run. The
cackling hens scattered, and the fox was already clutching one in his jaws 
when a stone hit him on the side.
   "Wicked brute!" yelled a man waving a stick. "Now I've got you!"
   To make matters worse, up raced a large dog, snarling viciously. The fox 
dropped the hen and tried to jump out of the hen run. At the first try, he 
fell back, perhaps weak with fright. He could almost feel the dog's fangs sink
into his ear, but with a desperate jump, he got over the fence. The yells and 
stones streamed after the bruised fox as he ran into the wood. In a nearby 
glade, he glanced round to make sure that he was not being followed. "Bad 
luck!" he said to himself. "All those hens . . ." His mouth was watering and 
he could feel gnawing hunger pains. Right above his head stretched a vine, 
laden with bunches of big ripe grapes. "Well, if there's nothing else . . ." 
muttered the fox, jumping up towards the grapes. But the bunches were hanging 
just beyond his reach. The fox then took a running jump at them, but without
success. And though he tried over and over again, the grapes remalned beyond 
his grasp.
   "Craw! Craw! Craw!" laughed a crow overhead, mocking the disappointed fox.
   "Sour grapes!" exclaimed the fox loudly. I'11 come back when they're ripe."
And thrusting out his chest to give himself airs, though still smarting from 
the blows he had received, he set off towards the woods with an empty stomach.



                     THE FOX AND THE CROW

   Once upon a time . . . a big crow stole a lump of cheese and went to perch 
on a branch of a tree to eat it in peace. A passing fox sniffed the air and 
stopped below the tree, his mouth watering.
   "Cheese?" he said. "Mmm. I'd love . . . if only I could . . ." he said to 
himself, greedily, wondering how to get hold of the morsel.
   After a moment or two, he spoke to the crow: "You are a fine crow! I've 
never seen anyone so big and strong. What lovely thick shiny feathers you 
have! And such slender legs, the sign of a noble bird. And a regal beak. 
That's it: the beak of a king! You ought to be crowned King of the Birds!"
   When the crow heard such glowing praise of his beauty, he stretched to his 
full length and triumphantly flapped hls wlngs.
   In his softest voice, the fox went on: "What lovely eyes you have. You 
don't seem to have a single fault! You're quite perfect." The crow had never 
been flattered so much in all his life. "Though I haven't heard your voice 
yet," went on the fox, "I expect that such a perfect creature like yourself 
can have nothing less than a wonderful singing voice!"
   The crow had, till then, been blissfully drinking in the fox's praise, but 
he felt a prick of doubt at the sweet words about his voice. He had never 
heard that crows were fine singers! Of course, being a very fine crow, perhaps
that meant he had a beautiful voice as well. The fox could be right! And the 
crow gazed down at the fox as he said: "Now then, King of the Birds, let me 
hear a sweet song . . ."                             
   Throwing caution to the winds, the crow opened his beak and, taking a deep 
breath, loudly cawed: "Cra, Cra, Cra!" The lump of cheese fell through the air
and the fox caught it neatly in his jaws. "I deserved that!" he told himself 
as he enjoyed the titbit. Then, licking his lips, he again spoke to the crow 
on the branch.
   "Silly crow. You're the ugliest bird I've ever seen, you have the worst 
voice I ve ever heard, but most of all, you're the most stupid bird I've ever 
met! And thanks for the cheese." And off he trotted well satisfied with 
hlmself...

                   THE FOX AND THE STORK

   Once upon a time . . . a fox made friends with a stork and decided to 
invite her to lunch. While he was wondering what to serve for the meal, he 
thought he'd play a trick on the bird. So he prepared a tasty soup and poured 
it into two flat plates.
   "Help yourself, Mrs Stork! I'm sure you'll enjoy this! It's frog soup and 
chopped parsley. Taste it, you'll find it's dellclous!"
   "Thank you very much!" said the stork, sniffing the soup. But she quickly 
saw the trick the fox had played on her. For no matter how she tried, she 
could not drink the soup from the flat plate. The sniggering fox urged her on:
"Eat up! Do you like it?" But all the stork could do was bluff. With a casual 
air she said: "I'm afraid I've such a headache that I've lost my appetite!" 
And the fox fussily replied: "What a shame! And it's such good soup too! Too 
bad! Maybe next time . . ." To which the stork quickly replied: "Yes, of 
course! Next time, you must have lunch with me!"
   The very next day, the fox found a polite note pinned to his door: it was 
the stork's invitation to lunch. "Now, isn't that nice of her!" said the fox 
to himself. "And she hasn't taken my little trick to heart either! A real 
lady!"        
   The stork's house was much plainer than the fox's, and she apologized to 
the fox. "My home is much humbler than yours," she said, "but I've cooked a 
really special meal. Freshwater shrimps with white wine and juniper berries!" 
The fox licked his lips at the idea of these goodies and sniffed deeply when 
the stork handed him his jar. But, try as he might, he was unable to eat a 
bite, for he could not reach down with his nose into the long neck of the jar.
In the meantime, with her long beak, the stork gobbled her lunch.
   "Try it! Try it!" she said. "Do you like it?" But the unlucky fox, confused
and outsmarted, could not think of an excuse for not eating.
   And as he tossed and turned hungrily in bed that night, thinking of his 
lost lunch, he said to himself with a sigh: "I might have known!"



               THE PEASANT, THE SNAKE AND THE FOX

   Once upon a time, a peasant on his way home heard a feeble voice calling 
"Help! Help!" He looked round, took a careful step or two then realised that 
the sound was coming from beneath a large boulder. He asked in amazement: 
"Who's that calling?" And a voice replied,
   "It's me. The rock rolled down over my hole and I'm shut in. I can't get 
out, I'm going to die. Please help me. Move the boulder." The peasant then 
asked:
   "But who are you?"
   "I'm a poor snake," came the reply.
   "A snake? But if I let you out you will bite me."
   "No, no, I promise I won't. Get me out, please!" The peasant allowed 
himself to be persuaded and he shifted the boulder . . . and out of a hole in 
the ground slid a snake which darted towards the peasant and tried to bite 
him. The man jumped back and cried,
   "Why did you do that?" The snake replied, "Because every good deed is 
rewarded by an evil one, didn't you know that?"
   "No, I didn't. I don't think that's so," said the peasant.
   "Very well," said the snake. "Let's go and ask someone. If we come across 
someone who thinks as you do, well, that's it, but if people say I'm right, 
then I shall bite you. Agreed?"
   "Agreed," said the peasant, and off they went.
   A little later, they met an old mangy lame horse, thin and covered in 
scratches, with an uncombed mane and dirty tail. The peasant spoke to him.
   "Listen, friend. If someone does a good deed, what does he get as his 
reward?" Without a moment's hesitation, the horse replied.
   "A bad deed. Look at me! I served my master faithfully for years and now 
that I'm old, he has left me to die of starvation!" At these words, the snake 
turned to the peasant and hissed, "Did you hear that? I shall bite you now!" 
But the man exclaimed: "Wait! One question isn't enough! We have to ask 
someone else."
   "Bother!" exclaimed the snake. "Very well, let's look for someone else, but
wait and see, I'm right and I'll get my bite!" So, leaving the horse behind, 
the pair went on their way.
   They met a sheep which, at the peasant's question, said: "A good deed is 
always repaid with a bad deed. Look at me, I always follow my master and never
complain. I obey him all the time and what does he do? He shears my fleece in 
winter, so I feel the cold, and makes me keep it in summer, so I melt with the
heat!"
   "Get ready," said the snake, "I'm about to bite!" But the peasant said,
   "Please! We've had the first round, and the second one as well, now let's 
play the deciding round. If I'm wrong at the third question, then I'll let you
bite me."
   On they went, and in the wood, the peasant caught sight of a fox. Suddenly 
he had an idea. With an excuse, he left the snake on the road and ran into the
wood to speak to the fox.
   "Listen, fox, do you too think that a good deed is always rewarded by a bad
one?" 
   "Of course!" replied the fox. Then the man went on.
   "Well, listen, I'm going to ask you the same question in front of a snake. 
If you say that one good deed is rewarded by another good deed, I'll give you 
a present of a piglet, a lamb or a goose. How's that?"
   "Good," said the fox. The peasant went back to the snake.
   "I saw a fox over there," he said. "As you know, foxes are wise. Let's go 
and hear what he thinks about it." A little later they asked the fox the same 
question and the fox replied as had been agreed.
   "A good deed is always rewarded with another good deed, but," he went on, 
"why ask me that question?"
   "Because this snake, that I helped to escape from his hole blocked by a 
boulder, wants to bite me," replied the peasant. The fox looked at the snake 
and said, "Hmm! I think a snake can manage to slither under a boulder."
   "But it was a big boulder," the snake protested, "and, it was blocking the 
entrance to my den."
   "I don't believe you!"
   "Oh, don't you? Well come and see then," said the snake, setting off for 
his den with the fox and the peasant. Pointing to the boulder, he said, "See? 
That boulder fell just there," and he pointed to the entrance.
   But the fox shook his head. "A big snake like you couldn't get into such a 
little hole," he said. Annoyed, the snake retorted,
   "Don't you think so?" and slid swiftly into the hole. Then the fox shouted,
   "Quick, peasant man! Shut him in!" and the peasant rolled the boulder back 
across the mouth of the den, imprisoning the snake (and I think he's in there 
yet!).
   "Ah, fox," said the peasant happily, "now that was a good deed! You got rid
of that wicked snake for me! Thanks a million!"
   "Oh, it was nothing," replied the fox, "but don't forget that piglet, the 
lamb and the goose you promised me."
   "No, I won't. Come to the farm this evening and you shall have them," said 
the man.
   That same evening, the fox went to the farm, but the peasant appeared with 
two snarling dogs and a gun, shouting, "Get out of here, you horrible beast, 
if you don't want to get into trouble!"
   The fox trotted away, sad and disappointed, muttering, "and they say I'm 
cunning! The cunning one is that peasant. Oh, well, that poor snake was 
probably right, good deeds are repaid with bad deeds," and off he went, his 
tail between his legs, into the wood.

